---
title: "Maastricht is ready for an environmental zone"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2020-09-25-talk-1
venue: "Climate demonstration Maastricht"
date: 2020-09-25
location: "Maastricht, Limburg"
---

[More information here](https://www.instagram.com/milieuzone_maastricht/)

Unfortunately, our city is still struggling with an unhealthy amount of air pollution. This has been the case for decades. In recent years, the level of air pollution with substances such as NO2, particulate matter and soot has gradually decreased. However, the WHO standard for particulate matter, particularly soot, has not been achieved everywhere in Maastricht. Where it has been achieved, it has only been achieved by a small margin. The standard for NO2 has still not been met at most measuring points in Maastricht. This is not only due to a lack of ambition, but also due to a lack of urgency.

Because the WHO standard for NO2, particulate matter and soot is largely exceeded on all arterial roads in our city, which unnecessarily affects the health of our citizens. It has been shown time and again that diabetes, cardiovascular disease, respiratory problems and cancer are strongly related to air quality. This not only leads to long-term illness and absenteeism, but also to premature death and an enormous cost for ordinary citizens. The most vulnerable, the elderly and the young, are the ones who pay the bill.

Because every year 75 Maastricht citizens die prematurely from respiratory complaints. A number that could be halved if more energetic and targeted measures were taken. However, these measures are always postponed by our municipality or packaged in long-term processes and vague plans that are not only non-committal, but also, unfortunately, have very little result.

Because fear and economic motives predominate in municipal decision-making. Fear of intervening clearly in the ever-increasing traffic flows that are overwhelming our city and residents.

Because our citizens continue to pay the bill.

Maastricht is ready for an environmental zone.

